doc/SUMMARY.md, before:

# Summary

[Introduction](intro.md)
[Quick start](quick-start.md)

# User guide
- [Authorization]() (to come)
- [Backup / Restore]() (to come)
- [Consistency]() (to come)
- [CRDTs](crdts.md)
- [Encryption]() (to come)
- [Gossip]() (to come)
- [Schema](schema.md)
- [Subscriptions]() (to come)
- [Synchronization]() (to come)
- [Telemetry](telemetry/README.md)
    - [Prometheus](telemetry/prometheus.md)
- [Templates]() (to come)

# Reference
- [API](api/README.md)
    - [POST /v1/transactions](api/transactions.md)
    - [POST /v1/queries](api/queries.md)
    - [POST /v1/subscriptions](api/subscriptions.md)
- [Command-line Interface](cli/README.md)
    - [agent](cli/agent.md)
    - [backup](cli/backup.md)
    - [consul]() (to come)
    - [exec](cli/exec.md)
    - [query](cli/query.md)
    - [reload](cli/reload.md)
    - [restore](cli/restore.md)
    - [sync]() (to come)
    - [template](cli/template.md)
    - [tls](cli/tls.md)
- [Configuration](config/README.md)
    - [db](config/db.md)
    - [gossip](config/gossip.md)
    - [api]() (to come)
    - [admin]() (to come)
    - [telemetry]() (to come)
    - [consul]() (to come)

Commit message:

Docs for deployment to Fly.io (#68)
* add watch pkg to examples/fly/Dockerfile

* add some annotations to fly.io example config.toml

* add draft deploy-on-fly.io doc

* add deploy-on-fly link to SUMMARY.md

* commit before moving into user guide

* interstitial commit

* getting reoriented

* docs words, links

* my fancy trick did not outwit the vagaries of COPY

* launch on fly.io and testing database is up to date

* add a page on using flyctl proxy to run CLI locally

* try a title

* add links to Fly.io docs

* fix a title in a few places

* rename a doc file

doc/SUMMARY.md, after:

# Summary

[Introduction](intro.md)
[Quick start](quick-start.md)

# User guide
- [Authorization]() (to come)
- [Backup / Restore]() (to come)
- [Consistency]() (to come)
- [CRDTs](crdts.md)
- [Encryption]() (to come)
- [Gossip]() (to come)
- [Schema](schema.md)
- [Subscriptions]() (to come)
- [Synchronization]() (to come)
- [Telemetry](telemetry/README.md)
    - [Prometheus](telemetry/prometheus.md)
- [Templates]() (to come)
- [Deploy on Fly.io](deploy-on-fly/README.md)
  - [Launch a Corrosion Cluster](deploy-on-fly/launch.md)
  - [Work with cluster data on Fly.io](deploy-on-fly/explore.md)
  - [Run Corrosion commands on a remote node](deploy-on-fly/local-remote.md)

# Reference
- [API](api/README.md)
    - [POST /v1/transactions](api/transactions.md)
    - [POST /v1/queries](api/queries.md)
    - [POST /v1/subscriptions](api/subscriptions.md)
- [Command-line Interface](cli/README.md)
    - [agent](cli/agent.md)
    - [backup](cli/backup.md)
    - [consul]() (to come)
    - [exec](cli/exec.md)
    - [query](cli/query.md)
    - [reload](cli/reload.md)
    - [restore](cli/restore.md)
    - [sync]() (to come)
    - [template](cli/template.md)
    - [tls](cli/tls.md)
- [Configuration](config/README.md)
    - [db](config/db.md)
    - [gossip](config/gossip.md)
    - [api]() (to come)
    - [admin]() (to come)
    - [telemetry]() (to come)
    - [consul]() (to come)
